Hello everyone. In this video,
we will be demo-ing the home surveillance system made by
one of Linaro's applications engineers.
Basically, the idea was,
instead of buying a commercial surveillance system for your home,
we understand how to use a Dragonboard and the sensors at this point,
so might as well just add on a camera and do
some Cloud services to do our own home surround system.
These tools do touch on some topics we will cover it
in future videos more in depth but the blog
that the application that Drew and I created is very good.
So it's a very easy way to go through and understanding how to do this project.
So as we mentioned earlier,
it was created by an application engineer in Linaro with the name of Manivannan.
Sorry I don't want to mispronounced his name so I'm not gonna try.
So it's a five part in
depth instruction guide on how to build it and you can find it on this website below and
you can find the repository to look at the code in detail or
other files such as the readme to know what more you can do.
It uses AWS and S and S for storage and
email notification and these are just little snippets of stuff we'll cover later.
And this isn't itself an in depth guide on either one of these topics.
So here are some of the requirements that you need.
First you'll need the Dragonboard 410C and power supply and then you will need a webcam.
It would be recommended if you could find
a USB webcam as it is easy to connect to the Dragonboard.
Sensors Mezzanine, these are used to connect the Servo.
Webcam mount which is kind of optional depending on what webcam
you have but we kind of found it hard to place the webcam on top of the Servo.
So just find the mount that seems applicable to this application and then we have
two Servos that we will normally connect to pins 9 and 10 on the blue headers on
the Mezzanine but instead we decided to connect it to D5s and 6
as it's easier with the Grove connectors instead of having wires on it.
So we wanted to stress that the code that we gave
you will use D5 and D6 instead of the headers.
And here are some of the software requirements that we need,
OpenCV which we will cover later, Pillows,
an Image Processing library that we won't cover in
this course but you can look at it in more detail if you want to.
We will be using Arduino for some of our programs.
Flask, which is a web server and as we mentioned earlier we will be using AWS.
So in this example,
we won't be covering Port Forwarding because this is used
for access outside of your general area.
So since we're connected through UC San Diego's network,
we can do everything locally.
But if you want to learn more about how to access your home surveillance,
we recommend you go look at Port Forwarding.
Here's a little description of our home surveillance.
So it will detect anyone who go will over to camera and if it
recognizes the face then it won't notify you or anything but
if it recognizes someone that isn't supposed to be at your home,
then you'll get an email.
And it also allows you to have a livestream of
your home when you're away so you can see what's going on and stuff like that.
So now we'll be going through the Dragonboard terminal to show you guys a demo,
just a phase checking and the Servo is moving around accordingly.
So if we go into the Dragonboard we'll have first LS and you see all these files.
This is directly from the GitHub that they came
with and we're just going to run a phase check.
There's other parts to doing this that we skipped that is in the blog,
but we skipped those over.
That's just gathering a phase data and then
training the algorithm that they have already.
And then we run this.
Takes a bit to set up because OpenCV is so big and then just put in who you want to do.
So as you can see in here it tags
Simon and then if we cut through the Mezzanine
itself you can see that some of the Servos are twitching.
That's because it's trying to center more by phases according to the image.
We don't have the Gimbal at the moment because our Servos are a little
weaker and we see that these Servos,
they're kind of twitching,
not because they reached the max
but they should twitch the other way depending on how I move.
It's very subtle.
It's just to gradually put my face in the middle of the thing.
Now just to prove to you that I'm just not putting Simon at all times,
we can put whatever old presidents on there.
As you can see, it correctly identifies Obama.
And then if we actually try Andrew,
it doesn't know who Andrew is but there is a chance for errors.
So if he looks into it,
it doesn't even see that you're a face.
Try of move around a bit.
Okay. So it tags you as me.
Okay. So this isn't the best thing.
The training for this is not even 10 minutes because there's two minutes on 30 images.
So there's a lot of room for error.
Not as good as some machine learning models
such as like deep learning but good enough for our purposes.
So if we exit this using 'Q',
we can go to the final whole surveillance system.
Is located in part five.
And there you go.
We have home surveillance.
So before we do this,
let's jump to my laptop and then we can see
Amazon's S3 bucket which is basically a hard drive
on Amazon Web Services that you can use and put files in.
As you can see here, we're on Amazon Web Services and this might look unfamiliar to you.
Again, we'll be talking about this more in detail
in our next course which will cover cloud services in depth.
But essentially, we should think of this is just a hard drive.
Sort of some computer owned by Amazon that you've access to through the Internet.
Basic S3 is, I think
simple storage solution or something like
that but it's just a complicated name for a simple concept.
But essentially, what they call their hard drives that are available
to customers are buckets and you can put files and folders here.
As you can see here,
my current bucket called UCSD home
is empty and it's telling me all the different ways to put it in.
And then we'll actually be putting in one of the images directly from
our capture on the direct board to this program.
So now we'll jump back to the Dragonboard and show you guys how
to run the program to detect a face.
So, if I just press Enter and run this,
it takes a bit to load up for Flask and OpenCV and all that.
And it should detect my face.
I saw the Servos twitching but if I look into it,
it doesn't really display an image here but hopefully that worked and we have an image.
So if we jump back to my computer,
we can see on S3 that there's this newly created folder here called Capture.
Before there was just nothing, just instructions.
But if we go into captured,
you can see my name and then a little zero to show the image.
And now if I actually open this and download it and then open it there,
you can see my face.
And this just got sent directly from
the Dragonboard to Amazon Web Services and now I can put it on my computer.
Just like an easy way of connecting everything together.
And one more thing we added to it
is one of the other services that Amazon offers is S and S,
which is simple notification service and essentially allows us to
email whoever we want as long as they allow it on email.
So one of the settings we set for this is that it will send me an email if it detects me.
Ideally, you'd want this for an intruder,
identifying an intruder or someone you just hate that you don't want in your house.
But as you can see here, we got a notification, "Something happened."
This is mostly just all the data that is inside of it
but we just know that this will mean an intruder has come into our house.
And the last thing is, once you get this notification,
if you have this computer
accessible not only on your network but through the router and to the rest of the world,
we can just go to this webpage and then see a video,
a live stream of whatever the camera sees.
So you can imagine some person breaks to your home,
you get an email, you're,
"I want to see what's happening."
And then you're going to see what it is.
Now it could have been actually a burglar or some cat that it triggered falsely
but ideally the face recognition would make that occur less.
So, that's most of the project.
Pretty nice system that you can build in
just five hours or so through instructions and stuff.
It's not too bad. So stay tuned for learning about more Cloud
in the next course and that should be it for this course. Thank you.